# Stanford Splash

## 2014 Fall
This was the first Splash class that I ever taught. Although I came in to Stanford dead set on studying materials science, I really enjoyed math and had a lot of exposure to math competitions during high school. Therefore, I decided to teach a combinatorics class on Pascal's triangle.

## 2015 Spring
At this point I had already taken some of the materials science core courses, so I decided to teach a materials science course on crystal structures and material classes. I found the lecture format from the Fall not very engaging, so I incorporated an activity where the students used marshmallows and toothpicks to build their own BCC and FCC unit cells. Unfortunately, the version of PowerPoint I used was too old and now I can't find a quick way to open it. Fortunately, I taught the same class with some small modifications the following Fall, and that PowerPoint still works for me.

## 2015 Fall
As mentioned above, I loved the materials science class so much that I decided to teach it again. I also subbed for a class (the original teacher cancelled the class) on US-China relations, so I quickly put some slides together discussing the history of China, Nixon-Mao relations, and then Obama-Xi relations. It was pretty fun, and the students and I had some interesting discussions, such as the battleships in the South China Sea.

## 2016 Spring
This was one of my more ambitious times as a teacher. I taught a new class on writing Chinese characters, going over their history and pictoral origins. The class was aimed at beginners and just meant to intrigue them about the language. I don't think I structured the class particularly well, as mixing lecture and writing made students lose focus. I also substituted two more classes, one on nanomachines (primarily in biomedicine) and the other on electrons. Both of them went OK, as I had some experience as a materials science student, and it was good teaching experience. I also moderated an engineering panel where students asked questions of Stanford engineering students (undergrad and PhD) from a variety of departments.

## 2016 Fall
In Winter 2016, so sophomore year, I studied abroad in Florence, Italy. I loved it so much, I decided to teach a class on Italian art, architecture, and food (I know, alliteration FAIL). The class ended with the students doing an activity where they used popsicle sticks to build a free-standing bridge. This activitiy was inspired by the Leonardo da Vinci museum that I visited while in Florence. Overall, I found any sort of interactive exercise to be helpful with Splash classes, and classes in general. Unfortunately, I seem to have misplaced the PowerPoint. *Sad*. I also moderated the engineering panel again, but this time I made sure to invite undergrad panelists who could relate more to the middle and high school students.

## 2017 Spring
I reprised my Chinese character writing class, and this time things went a lot smoother. I also taught a new class on solving Fermi problems, which was a Science Olympiad event that I did in high school. The class ended with a competition to see which pair could score the highest on a couple of estimation problems. The students got pretty into it, from what I could tell. It was great to see students so engaged with the activities. I also moderated a sports and recreation panel.

## 2017 Fall
This was my senior Fall Quarter, and my younger brother (9th grade at the time) came to Stanford Splash (from St. Louis, MO). Between worrying about him and class/research commitments, this was the first Splash where I did not teach any classes. I did help our Student Experience chair Derry create a digital survey that teachers could ask students to fill out after their class to collect feedback. Our implementation wasn't great from what I recall, but it did impress upon me the importance of collecting feedback during the teaching process.

## 2018 Spring
This was Spring Quarter of senior year, and during the Winter I took Social Dance III with Richard Powers and was hooked on dancing. I was in Social Dance II at the time, I had gone to Viennese Ball, and I regularly attended dance events. In the hopes of learning how to dance better, I decided to teach my first dance class, and (mistakenly) chose rotary waltz to teach with my former co-President of Splash, Ariel Leong. She had also taken Social Dance I before and we danced together at VBall. We had a lot of fun, and so did our students, even if rotary wasn't quite mastered. Definitely realized after that how much fun teaching dance would be.

## 2018 Fall
This was my last Splash as a Stanford student, and I taught Introduction to West Coast Swing with my friend Elaine Lui, a former Splash admin. This was a modified version of the class I taught at Berkeley Splash a month prior, based on some of my observations and taking into account program differences. Having a follow who also danced (and better than I did!) was extremely helpful, and it looked like the students got something out of it. I also gave a talk at the Parents Program about the qualities I thought were important for a fulfilling high-school experience (clickbait title: How to Get Into Stanford), but I've left those slides out because they contain some sensitive information. I didn't know how that talk would go, but it ended up being extremely well received, probably due to my candor.